Harvard Law School Recording License Agreement

The Author named above authorizes the President and Fellows of Harvard College and its agents, on behalf of Harvard Law School ("Harvard"), to make audio, photographic and video recordings by any means and in any media (the ÅgRecordingsÅh) of myself and my presentation, lecture or program described below (the ÅgPresentationÅh) and to use my name, photograph and biographical information in connection with the reproduction, distribution and promotion of the Presentation and the Recordings.  I understand that Harvard will credit me as the author or source of the Presentation.

I retain any copyrights I may have in the Presentation.  Nothing in this document shall limit my rights to publish or use the Presentation as I see fit.

I agree that Harvard will own the Recordings and all copyrights and other rights therein.  I agree that Harvard will have the irrevocable, worldwide right to make, copy, edit, publish, distribute, play, show, display and otherwise use and make available the Recordings and any works that may be derived from the Recordings, by any means and in any media now existing or hereafter invented, and to authorize others to do the same; provided that Harvard may only exercise these rights for educational or other purposes consistent with HarvardÅfs mission.  I also grant to Harvard the rights set out in the preceding sentence with respect to any slides, overheads, handouts or other materials that I have provided in connection with the Presentation, with due attribution.

I understand and agree that I will not receive any royalties or other payment in connection with either the rights I have granted to Harvard in this document or the use and dissemination of the Recordings.

I warrant that: my Presentation and any related materials I have provided are original with me; I have identified to Harvard all copyrighted material of others that is included in the Presentation or in any such related materials; and neither my Presentation nor any such related materials nor the grant of rights I have made to Harvard in this document infringe or violate any copyright or other right of, or breach any obligation I have to, any other person or entity.   

This Speaker Consent for Recordings is executed as a document under seal governed by the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

http://form.jotform.com/form/11284500240